>> Brian Holt: So
inside the render body of order,
you want to take care of the checkout
at this particular level.
>> Brian Holt: Just to kinda
show you how you would do this.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so we're gonna
write an async function called checkout.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
we're gonna setLoading(true) because we
don't want people to be able to add and
subtract things while we're checking out,
right?
And then we're going to say,
await fetch( "/ api/order") okay?.
And then we want it to be a post,
so method:"POST",
headers, we have to tell
it it's a JSON request.
So "content- type":
"application/json", Cool.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna have
a body which is JSON.stringify().
>> Brian Holt: So if you're not familiar,
this is the same as saying cart:cart,
the name of the thing is cart, and
the name of the variables cart.
But in JavaScript, you can just condense
that down If they're the same name and
just call it cart like that.
When someone checks out, they probably
expect their cart to be emptied, right?
So, all you do with that is setCart to be
empty array and setLoading to be false.
By this point, because we're doing
an await here, then it's just going to
wait for this to finish first,
and then once this is finished,
then it'll do these things,
that's the magic of await here.
Okay, last thing here,
we have this function called checkout,
we have the ability to
call inside of cart,
but we have to pass it from
parent to child, right?
So down here on cart,
we're just going to say checkout equals,
you probably guessed it, checkout.
And now that function is being passed from
parent to child via the props, right?
So that checkout function is
now this checkout function,
which now we can call very
easily with the on click here.
Let's talk a second about props,
we haven't really talked too,
too much about it.
It used to be kind of confusing
the difference between props and state.
I kind of really pull
those concepts apart so
that hopefully they're not
confusing to each other.
Props are things that are passed
from parent to child, right?
So in this particular case,
you have the cart,
and this is getting the actual cart
itself is coming from the parent, and
checkout is a function that's
coming from the parent.
But it's important to note here, cart is
immutable, or maybe stated differently,
you cannot change cart because
it came from the parent, right?
So I can't say cart =cart.push( 'lol'),
right?
This is not gonna do anything,
because the cart of the parent is
separated from the cart of the child.
So in other words,
this is what's called one-way data flow,
which is something that some people
talk about sometimes with React,
that data only flows down in components,
it never flows up, right?
So there's no way I can say inside of
this cart, like parent.cart.push or
anything like that, doesn't exist, there's
no way to do that directly from the child.
The only way that a child component can
affect the parent component is through
something like this, where you pass a
function down from the parent to the child
and say, hey child, when you want to
affect the parent, called this function.
So maybe you stated differently,
cart has no concept of its parent,
it could be the top level component,
it could not be the top level component,
it could be rendered here,
it could be rendered there,
it has no concept of where it is,
it doesn't matter, right?
It's its own encapsulated component, this
is different versus the useState, right?
Which is the mutable part of the child
that it can modify itself, right?
And a component can only modify its own
state, it can't modify its child state,
it can't modify its parent state,
it can only modify its own state, so
in other words,
these components are self-encapsulated.
It can be annoying because it makes it
verbose to change things at various
different levels, but it means that like.
If I see that there's a problem with cart,
let's say it is showing the wrong word for
checkout.
I'm 99.99% that the problem is
going to be inside of cart,
it makes it very obvious
of where problems are.
And that's my favorite part about
React is it's very debuggable from
that perspective, right?
If there's a problem with checkout here,
it could mean that the props
are passed in incorrectly,
in which case I'd have to go up the parent
tree to see, what are you passing down?
But at that interface level,
parent passes in this, child takes this,
makes that interface really easy to debug.
Because I can just open my dev tool,
like what are your props, right?
What did you get?
And if it's what I expect or what it gets,
right, that I know the problem
lies within the child.
So let's go fix the problem
that we had here,
it is not header, it headers.
How dare you browse, so that's in
order.JSX, that's the checkout function,
just make sure you have
headers instead of header.
Alright, so
then we can come back over here, and
get your Hawaiian pizza, couple of those.
Barbecue, add cart,
click Check out, and you can see,
we get a 200 with an orderid.
So just so you know this actually
is being saved in your database,
then the little SQLite file, so
you'll be able to view your orders later.
And you can just wonder, why did you buy
so many not Pluton of pizzas [LAUGH]